In this video, I'm going to briefly
show how you can install R on the Mac.
It's a very simple process,
it only takes a few steps.
So the first thing you need to do is
open your web browser and go to CRAN,
this is the Comprehensive R Archive
Network, and you'll see that there
are a number of options for you to
download here for different platforms.
So we're going to download
the Mac platform here.
So we can go to Download R for the Mac,
you want to download this package file
here, so just click on this and you'll see
that the download meter will start going.
It might take a few minutes depending on
the speed of your internet connection, so
just be patient.
It's finished downloading.
I'm just going to open up here,
the package, and you can see it
will start the installer, and
it will guide you through all of
the steps you need to install R.
I'll click Continue here and
this is just the description of
what's going to get installed.
Hit Continue.
The software license agreement is the
GNU General Public License Version 2, so
you should agree to the license,
after having read it, of course.
Then you can just click Install here and
you might have to type in your
administrator password, so
just go ahead and do that.
It'll start installing
the files on your computer.
Now it's finished, I can hit Close,
then it will be in my applications folder.
So I can just go to my applications
folder, which is right here.
They're in alphabetical order, so I'll
just scroll down to R and there it is and
there you have it.
You've installed R on your computer and
now you can go ahead,
you can just use it directly, or if you
want to, you can install an interface,
like R Studio, if you like.